# Mini-project description - “Guess the number” game

One of the simplest two-player games is “Guess the number”. The first player thinks of a secret number in some known range while the second player attempts to guess the number. After each guess, the first player answers either “Higher”, “Lower” or “Correct!” depending on whether the secret number is higher, lower or equal to the guess.

## Mini-project development process

1. Add code to the program template that creates a frame with an input field whose handler has the name input_guess. You will use this input field to enter guesses.

2. Add code to the event handler input_guess(guess) that takes the input string guess, converts it to an integer, and prints out a message of the form "Guess was 37" (or whatever the guess actually was).

3. Add code to the function new_game that initializes a global variable secret_number to be a random number in the range [0, 100). (Note that this range should not include 100 as a possible secret number.) Remember to include a global statement. Hint: Look at the functions in the random module to figure out how to easily select such a random number. Observe that the call to new_game() at the bottom of the template ensures that secret_number is always initialized when the program starts running.

4. Add code to input_guess that compares the entered number to secret_number and prints out an appropriate message such as "Higher", "Lower", or "Correct".

5. Using function(s) in the simplegui module, add buttons to restart the game so that you don't need to repeatedly click “Run” in CodeSkulptor to play multiple games. You should add two buttons with the labels "Range is [0,100)" and "Range is [0,1000)" that allow the player to choose different ranges for the secret number. Using either of these buttons should restart the game and print out an appropriate message. They should work at any time during the game. In our implementation, the event handler for each button sets the desired range for the secret number (as a global variable) and then call new_game to reset the secret number in the desired range. As you play “Guess the number”, you might notice that a good strategy is to maintain an interval that consists of the highest guess that is “Lower” than the secret number and the lowest guess that is “Higher” than the secret number. A good choice for the next guess is the number that is the average of these two numbers. The answer for this new guess then allows you to figure a new interval that contains the secret number and that is half as large. For example, if the secret number is in the range [0, 100), it is a good idea to guess 50. If the answer is "Higher", the secret number must be in the range [51, 100). It is then a good idea to guess 75 and so on. This technique of successively narrowing the range corresponds to a well-known computer algorithm known as binary search.

6. Your final addition to “Guess the number” will be to restrict the player to a limited number of guesses. After each guess, your program should include in its output the number of remaining guesses. Once the player has used up those guesses, they lose, the game prints out an appropriate message, and a new game immediately starts. Since the strategy above for playing “Guess the number” approximately halves the range of possible secret numbers after each guess, any secret number in the range [low, high) can always be found in at most n guesses where n is the smallest integer such that 2 ** n >= high - low + 1. For the range [0, 100), n is seven. For the range [0, 1000), n is ten. In our implementation, the function new_game() set the number of allowed guess to seven when the range is [0, 100) or to ten when the range is [0, 1000). For more of a challenge, you may compute n from low and high using the functions math.log and math.ceil in the math module.
